Warm Greetings from Google India !

It was a pleasure speaking with you! :)

To get up to speed with respect to how and what to prepare, please find below certain materials/links which will be extremely useful to you. Do have a thorough look at them.

Please check your calendar and let me know your availability to schedule your TPS

Overall process:

Recruiter Prescreen → Onsite Interview (5 sessions) → Hiring Committee Review → Offer Review → Offer

Delivery (Woohoo!)

Step 1. Refresh yourself with CS fundamentals

We do expect you to know a lot about algorithms and data structures and especially be able to implement them into your solutions - there is a great bigocheatsheet that may also help you!

Steve Yegge’s Blog

Google Style Guides (C++, Python, Java; Android, Javascript)

Geek for Geeks - Study algorithms and data structure System Design resources:

System design interview tip!

Hired in Tech

Step 2. Coding Practice + CS review

When you practice, do not use an IDE. You need to be able to write legible, compilable code without help with regards to layout, or spelling of standard library class/method names. I suggest solving similar style algorithmic/ DS problems on a google document or on paper to simulate a real interview. Several sites that provide similar problems to those typically asked in the interview are:

Leetcode

Code Jam Kickstart - great practice to get a glimpse of Google coding and algorithm questions. Code Jam hosts online Kickstart rounds that give participants the opportunity to test and grow their coding abilities!

Participate in one—or join them all! You can also learn how to solve those problems by reading our analysis

Codeforces

HackerRank

Topcoder

ACM-ICPC

Code Jam

 

Additional Notes/ Optional Studies:

Courses: can choose one of below

Coursera - Algorithms, Part 1

Coursera - Algorithms, Part 2

Udacity - Intro to Algorithms

MIT Open courseware - Introduction to Algorithms (not efficient) Youtube Channels:

Tushar Roy - Coding made Simple

Interview Prep

Google Recruiters Share Technical Interview Tips (30 min)

Google Technical Interview Workshop - Singapore (2 hours):

Beautiful code

Elements of Programing Interview

Coding Interview University

Cracking the Coding Interview

Understand Google Interview Process

Ask a Google Engineer — What is the Interview Process at Google? (2 min)

How to prepare for a Google Engineering Interview (7 min)

Candidate Coaching Session for Technical Interviewing (45 min) Example of a Coding Interview (24 min)

 Initial Interview (DS/Algo):

Duration: 45mins

Google hangouts call (video is optional)

Coding is done on a Virtual Interviewing Platform, similar to Google Docs.

You will be expected to come up with optimized and production-ready code, free of bugs. You should not write in pseudo-code. I would highly recommend watching this video first to get a good grasp of the tips/ideas/areas of focus for the interviews here at Google.

Important areas of assessment
 Coding - Good code quality (No IDE. Fully functional code. Take care of syntax, good language constructs, clean and concise code) & coding fast (you can code in Codechef timed challenges to practise coding under time pressure)

DS & Algo - Refer to below topics on what we are assessing for

Attitude - Being independent, lead/drive the discussion forward while being receptive to hints from interviewers and integrating it in your solution

Speed of solving the question (Ideally 20mins per question - refer to below notes on time allocation)

Strategy for Success
Step 1: Clarify the problem

Step 2: Define your approach and propose a solution

Step 3: Code and implement a fully working solution. Cover for edge/boundary cases

Step 4: Dry run (sample Test Cases) along with discussion with the interviewer, fixing bugs

This is simply a recommendation but does not need to be followed for every question.

Breakdown of Framework

Tip 1: Think out Loud & Communicate your Thought Process

Google interviewers are assessing you based on your problem solving skills, and want to know your full thought process behind why and how you derived the final result

Talk through your entire thought process & explain about your approach

Most important would be to pick the right data structure and algorithm for a specific problem! T Do not mumble to yourself or keep silent when thinking.

Tip 2: Ask Clarifying Questions (Very Important!)

Never jump straight and code up the solution. Always take a pause, look at the interview question and ask some clarifying questions

Tip 3: Discuss algorithmic complexities & Identify all Edge Cases Independently For Algorithms, you will need to know big-o notation very well.

Always state time and space complexities upfront. Think of how you can reduce the complexity further to reach an optimised solution!

Distinguish between average case/worst case runtime Consider amortized time complexities!

The goal is to reach the most optimised solution at the end of the interview, and to have a complete working solution.

Tip 4: Test your Code

Check for boundary conditions!

Stress tests to ensure that the code runs within time constraint

Create tests that have 100% code coverage

Rectify any bugs in your code before the interviewer points it out

Tip 5: Ensure Good Code Quality on Google Docs

You are expected to code in Google Docs. Since it does not have any IDE, you are expected to type out your code from scratch

Type as close to fully functional code as possible. This code should be maintainable and readable by a large database of engineers

Do not use Pseudo code or shortcuts, it is not good enough.

Interview Preparation Plan
 Revise all concepts on data structures & algorithms- you can also use this gitHub link on CS fundamentals that can serve as a checklist while preparing. This  BigO cheat sheet <http://bigocheatsheet.com/>  could help you as well!

 Structured Revision plan on the topics that to cover (Eg. hashtable, hashmaps, trees, arrays, strings, graphs, dynamic programming and more)

Practise per category

Practice up to a level that you reach competency

Practice Problem Identification by picking random problems and practice identifying “Which category does this problem belong to? Backtracking/Dynamic programming? Solution/Algorithmic design?”

 Practice coding without an IDE, be familiar with the differences in how you should write code in Google Docs. Do practise coding in Google Docs within a set time frame and getting comfortable talking while coding.

In summary: Practise a wide variety of questions, and simulate actual interview conditions! You can also run mock interviews here at pramp.com

Frequently asked topics (in no particular order)
 Binary search

BFS/DFS/Flood fill

Tree traversals

Hash tables

Linked list, stacks, queues, two pointers/sliding window

Binary heaps

Dynamic programming

Union find

Ad hoc/string manipulations

Other good to know topics: Trie, segment trees/fenwick trees, bitmask

Google Interview Style Guides (C++, Python, Java; Javascript)

You'll be expected to know and apply: lists, maps, stacks, priority queues, binary trees, graphs, bags, and sets.

For algorithms you'll want to know greedy algorithms, divide and conquer, dynamic programming, recursion, and brute force search.

You'll definitely want to be conversant with big O notation, time -space complexity, and real world performance of all of this.

What we are assessing for Data Structures & Algorithms
Can you implement the most optimized data structure and algorithm for the question? Can you explain the tradeoffs between the data structure/solution?

Can you explain why you choose a data structure for implementation Can you explain and analyze the time and space complexity correctly Can you translate the algorithm to code well?

 